fundle-config(1) -- Set fundler configuration options
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`fundle config` [<name> [<value>]]

## DESCRIPTION

This command allows you to interact with fundler's configuration system.
Fundler retrieves its configuration from the local application (`app/.fundle/config`),
environment variables, and the user's home directory (`~/.fundle/config`),
in that order of priority.

Executing `fundle config` with no parameters will print a list of all
fundler configuration for the current fundle, and where that configuration
was set.

Executing `fundle config <name>` will print the value of that configuration
setting, and where it was set.

Executing `fundle config <name> <value>` will set that configuration to the
value specified for all fundles executed as the current user. The configuration
will be stored in `~/.fundle/config`.

## BUILD OPTIONS

You can use `fundle config` to give fundler the flags to pass to the gem
installer every time fundler tries to install a particular gem.

A very common example, the `mysql` gem, requires Snow Leopard users to
pass configuration flags to `gem install` to specify where to find the
`mysql_config` executable.

    gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

Since the specific location of that executable can change from machine
to machine, you can specify these flags on a per-machine basis.

    fundle config build.mysql --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

After running this command, every time fundler needs to install the
`mysql` gem, it will pass along the flags you specified.

## CONFIGURATION KEYS

Configuration keys in fundler have two forms: the canonical form and the
environment variable form.

For instance, passing the `--without` flag to [fundle install(1)][fundle-install]
prevents Fundler from installing certain groups specified in the Gemfile(5). Fundler
persists this value in `app/.fundle/config` so that calls to `Fundler.setup`
do not try to find gems from the `Gemfile` that you didn't install. Additionally,
subsequent calls to [fundle install(1)][fundle-install] remember this setting and skip those
groups.

The canonical form of this configuration is `"without"`. To convert the canonical
form to the environment variable form, capitalize it, and prepend `BUNDLE_`. The
environment variable form of `"without"` is `BUNDLE_WITHOUT`.

## LIST OF AVAILABLE KEYS

The following is a list of all configuration keys and their purpose. You can
learn more about their operation in [fundle install(1)][fundle-install].

* `path` (`BUNDLE_PATH`):
  The location on disk to install gems. Defaults to `$GEM_HOME` in development
  and `vendor/fundler` when `--deployment` is used
* `frozen` (`BUNDLE_FROZEN`):
  Disallow changes to the `Gemfile`. Defaults to `true` when `--deployment`
  is used.
* `without` (`BUNDLE_WITHOUT`):
  A `:`-separated list of groups whose gems fundler should not install
* `bin` (`BUNDLE_BIN`):
  Install executables from gems in the fundle to the specified directory.
  Defaults to `false`.
* `gemfile` (`BUNDLE_GEMFILE`):
  The name of the file that fundler should use as the `Gemfile`. This location
  of this file also sets the root of the project, which is used to resolve
  relative paths in the `Gemfile`, among other things. By default, fundler
  will search up from the current working directory until it finds a
  `Gemfile`.

In general, you should set these settings per-application by using the applicable
flag to the [fundle install(1)][fundle-install] command.

You can set them globally either via environment variables or `fundle config`,
whichever is preferable for your setup. If you use both, environment variables
will take preference over global settings.

